[Music]
[Music] now Hiram king of Tyre sent his servants
now Hiram king of Tyre sent his servants
now Hiram king of Tyre sent his servants to Solomon because he heard that they
to Solomon because he heard that they
to Solomon because he heard that they had anointed him King in place of his
had anointed him King in place of his
had anointed him King in place of his father for Hiram had always loved David
father for Hiram had always loved David
father for Hiram had always loved David then Solomon center Hiram you know how
then Solomon center Hiram you know how
then Solomon center Hiram you know how my father David could not build a house
my father David could not build a house
my father David could not build a house for the name of the Lord his God because
for the name of the Lord his God because
for the name of the Lord his God because of the walls which were fought against
of the walls which were fought against
of the walls which were fought against him on every side until the Lord put his
him on every side until the Lord put his
him on every side until the Lord put his foes under the soles of his feet but now
foes under the soles of his feet but now
foes under the soles of his feet but now the Lord my God has given me rest on
the Lord my God has given me rest on
the Lord my God has given me rest on every side there is neither adversary
every side there is neither adversary
every side there is neither adversary nor evil occurrence and behold I propose
nor evil occurrence and behold I propose
nor evil occurrence and behold I propose to build a house for the name of the
to build a house for the name of the
to build a house for the name of the Lord my God as the Lord spoke to my
Lord my God as the Lord spoke to my
Lord my God as the Lord spoke to my father David saying your son whom I will
father David saying your son whom I will
father David saying your son whom I will set on your throne in your place he
set on your throne in your place he
set on your throne in your place he shall build the house for my name
shall build the house for my name
shall build the house for my name now therefore command that they cut down
now therefore command that they cut down
now therefore command that they cut down Cedars for me from Lebanon and my
Cedars for me from Lebanon and my
Cedars for me from Lebanon and my servants will be with your servants and
servants will be with your servants and
servants will be with your servants and I will pay you wages for your servants
I will pay you wages for your servants
I will pay you wages for your servants according to whatever you say for you
according to whatever you say for you
according to whatever you say for you know there is none among us who has
know there is none among us who has
know there is none among us who has skill to cut timber like the sidonians
skill to cut timber like the sidonians
skill to cut timber like the sidonians [Applause]
[Applause]
[Applause] so it was when Hiram heard the words of
so it was when Hiram heard the words of
so it was when Hiram heard the words of Solomon that he rejoiced greatly and
Solomon that he rejoiced greatly and
Solomon that he rejoiced greatly and said blessed be the Lord this day for he
said blessed be the Lord this day for he
said blessed be the Lord this day for he has given gave it a wise son over this
has given gave it a wise son over this
has given gave it a wise son over this great people
great people
great people then Hyrum sent to Solomon I have
then Hyrum sent to Solomon I have
then Hyrum sent to Solomon I have considered the message which you sent me
considered the message which you sent me
considered the message which you sent me and I will do all you desire concerning
and I will do all you desire concerning
and I will do all you desire concerning the cedar and Cypress logs my servants
the cedar and Cypress logs my servants
the cedar and Cypress logs my servants shall bring them down from Lebanon to
shall bring them down from Lebanon to
shall bring them down from Lebanon to the sea I will float them in rafts by
the sea I will float them in rafts by
the sea I will float them in rafts by sea to the place you indicate to me and
sea to the place you indicate to me and
sea to the place you indicate to me and will have them broken apart there then
will have them broken apart there then
will have them broken apart there then you can take them away and you shall
you can take them away and you shall
you can take them away and you shall fulfill my desire by giving food for my
fulfill my desire by giving food for my
fulfill my desire by giving food for my household
then Hyrum gave Solomon cedar and
then Hyrum gave Solomon cedar and Cypress logs according to all his desire
Cypress logs according to all his desire
Cypress logs according to all his desire and Solomon gave Hyrum 20,000 cause of
and Solomon gave Hyrum 20,000 cause of
and Solomon gave Hyrum 20,000 cause of wheat as food for his household and 20
wheat as food for his household and 20
wheat as food for his household and 20 cause of pressed oil thus Solomon gave
cause of pressed oil thus Solomon gave
cause of pressed oil thus Solomon gave to Hyrum year-by-year
to Hyrum year-by-year
to Hyrum year-by-year so the Lord gave Solomon wisdom as he
so the Lord gave Solomon wisdom as he
so the Lord gave Solomon wisdom as he had promised him and there was peace
had promised him and there was peace
had promised him and there was peace between Hyrum and Solomon and the two of
between Hyrum and Solomon and the two of
between Hyrum and Solomon and the two of them made a treaty together then King
them made a treaty together then King
them made a treaty together then King Solomon raised up a labor force out of
Solomon raised up a labor force out of
Solomon raised up a labor force out of all Israel and the labor force was
all Israel and the labor force was
all Israel and the labor force was thirty thousand men and he sent them to
thirty thousand men and he sent them to
thirty thousand men and he sent them to Lebanon ten thousand a month in shifts
Lebanon ten thousand a month in shifts
Lebanon ten thousand a month in shifts they were one month in Lebanon and two
they were one month in Lebanon and two
they were one month in Lebanon and two months at home
months at home
months at home a denier was in charge of the labor
a denier was in charge of the labor
a denier was in charge of the labor force Solomon had 70,000 who carried
force Solomon had 70,000 who carried
force Solomon had 70,000 who carried burdens and 80,000 who quarried stone in
burdens and 80,000 who quarried stone in
burdens and 80,000 who quarried stone in the mountains
the mountains
the mountains besides 3,300 from the chiefs of
besides 3,300 from the chiefs of
besides 3,300 from the chiefs of solomon's deputies who supervise the
solomon's deputies who supervise the
solomon's deputies who supervise the people who labored in the work and the
people who labored in the work and the
people who labored in the work and the king commanded them to quarry large
king commanded them to quarry large
king commanded them to quarry large stones costly stones and Hulme stones to
stones costly stones and Hulme stones to
stones costly stones and Hulme stones to lay the foundation of the temple so
lay the foundation of the temple so
lay the foundation of the temple so Solomon's builders Hiram's builders and
Solomon's builders Hiram's builders and
Solomon's builders Hiram's builders and the giba lights quarried them and they
the giba lights quarried them and they
the giba lights quarried them and they prepared timber and stones to build the
prepared timber and stones to build the
prepared timber and stones to build the temple